the art of descending is a skill that
few in the peloton really grasp but
those that can use it with great effect
with marginal gains often determining
the difference between first and tenth
place teams are looking at not only the
kit but also their riders in cycle
recently traveled to the training camp
of giant shimano to join oscar sice a
former downhill mountain bike racer a
more recently training coach for giant
bicycles his role is to assess and
advise riders techniques in the hope
that they can attack on the downhills as
well as the climbs and flats I think
it's getting more and more important
we've seen during the last I would say
five or six seasons there's there are
more guys that quick down the hill and
they take that advantage and they are
probably attacking my point of view is
like I think besides the saving energy
for me as a safety issue I you know I've
seen those guys getting hurt some of
them very hurt maybe it's a you know
it's a career-ending maybe sometimes so
I think it's it's it's pretty steamed
what they did at 90 km/h the likes of
Nibelungs again can assess even the most
finite details natural talent can go a
long way but Oscar believes many of the
techniques can be taught I think the
important thing is like knowing how to
read the road very quick and add that to
every single corner you find it
immediately you need to guess what's
coming next what's the next corner gonna
be like so that's also an ability you
need to develop so that is one and then
the rest is like okay how is this guy
breaking on the bike is having the right
breaking skills is he having the right
position on the body and just only two
or three basics messages that they can
bring home to to practice every day team
giant shimano pride themselves on
nurturing talent through the rights its
training like this which helps riders
reach their maximum potential
I feel that for me it's necessary to be
a good designer because i'm not one of
the best climbers in the peloton so
sometimes i have to take this to come
back to the first group and yeah then
it's very necessary to be good in the
darkness technique training like we did
today it's really important for every
type of rider because you can win the
race downhill or you can also lose it I
was a mountain bike before so it's a it
was fun for me and I really like this
kind of stuff fun for some terrifying
for others danger is ever-present Oscar
size and giant shimano team coach
audrianna hell mantels goal is not
necessarily to make their riders the
next sound well Sanchez but I make them
comfortable and acclimatize to
descending at a reasonable pace these
small things can also make the
difference for example if you are a bear
downhiller it you get stressed in the
downhill you don't take your time to eat
a drink in the downhill or even worse
you lose time in a downhill reaching
speeds in excess of 100 km/h is a feat
that only a handful can manage the best
descenders in the peloton are the
calculators the obsessives the ones who
can manage risk I think when they have
different than the others is like a risk
a little bit more than the others that
is to also but their risk because they
have also better skills and when you go
on a training session for them they're
going quick
bike setup can make a difference but the
invaluable experience and techniques
that Oscar hand into these riders could
very well change a race outcome this
season